Command Arguments are all the same to the shell, but there's a type of argument that many commands treat specially: options. options generally make some small change to the way a command works.

Options usually consist of a dash followed by a single letter.
For example, we can get the ls command to display all files, even files that are hidden, by passing it the -a option as an argument: ls -a
On Unix-like systems, a file is treated as "hidden" if its file name begins with a dot.
Now that we've told the ls command to list all files, we can see .ninja and .spy files that were hidden previously.
Here's another option for the ls command: -t, which causes files to be sorted by the time they were created: ls -t
This shows us that bird.txt is the newest file, and statue.txt is the oldest.
Most options for a command can be combined. If we pass both the -a and -t options to ls, it will show us all files sorted by time of creation: ls -a -t
This shows us that the .ninja and .spy files are even newer than bird.txt.
treehouse:~/workspace$ ls -a
.  ..  bird.txt  cart.txt  library  mall  .ninja  offices  .spy  statue.txt
treehouse:~/workspace$ ls -t
mall  offices  library  bird.txt  cart.txt  statue.txt
treehouse:~/workspace$ ls -a -t
.  .ninja  .spy  mall  offices  library  bird.txt  cart.txt  statue.txt  ..
Most commands accept options, but the set of options and their meaning varies with each command. The cat command, for example, accepts a -n option that numbers each line of output: cat -n bird.txt cart.txt statue.txt
Notice that the option is followed by regular arguments giving the file names to print. With most commands, options are given before the command's regular arguments.
treehouse:~/workspace$ cat -n bird.txt cart.txt statue.txt
  1  There is a bird here, looking up at the statue with interest.
  2  A stand selling hot dogs and bottles of diet cola.
  3  A statue of a hunter standing over a dead bear. Creepy.
It can be hard to remember what those single-letter options stand for, so many commands also support longer option names.
These begin with a double-dash followed by one or more words.
For example, the ls command lets you use a --all option instead of -a to list all files: ls --all
Not all single-letter options have a longer equivalent, though. For example there is no longer version of ls's -t option, so you'll have to use the abbreviation: ls --all -t
treehouse:~/workspace$ ls --all
.  ..  bird.txt  cart.txt  library  mall  .ninja  offices  .spy  statue.txt
treehouse:~/workspace$ ls --all -t
.  .ninja  .spy  mall  offices  library  bird.txt  cart.txt  statue.txt  ..